# Q_Alt_News
This repository contains the code for a data analysis of Telegram posts drawn from the "QAnon database" constructed jointly by Lighthouse Reports and Bellingcat. All important source and results data as well as the scripts used for analysis are contained in this repo. Unfortuntely, the ElasticSearch instance used to extract posts from the database is not publicly available, but the raw data drawn from the database is.

# Main Pipeline
- Preprocessing](https://github.com/Lighthouse-Reports/Q_Alt_News/blob/main/code/231012_justin_datawrangling.R) This script merges the individual source data files for the 'cimate sample' (TODO: insert link) into a single dataframe and removes false positives in the process.
- [Spread analysis](https://github.com/Lighthouse-Reports/Q_Alt_News/blob/main/code/231012_justin_spread_multitopic.R): This script works on results returned from the datawrangling script. Analysis includes posts over time and by language, most frequent posters, most succsessful posts, and most shared links. Additional tests can be easily integrated. Most of the analysis is done across languages and sub-narratives. Look for 'CHECK' comments to change parameters.
- [Content analysis](https://github.com/Lighthouse-Reports/Q_Alt_News/blob/main/code/231015_justin_content_multitopic.R): This script works on results returned from the datawrangling script. It includes keyword extraction (nouns and cooccurences), topic modelling, and will soon include named entity recognition. The script is meant as a template and it will need to be adapted based on what you find. For instance, if the keyword analysis yields interesting terms, you can specify relevant terms and find out how they were used over time and by which channels they were used. In addition, it's set up to run Google's toxicity detector through the Perspective API. Places where users might want to adapt the script are commented with 'CHECK'. 
- [Monetization Analysis](230921_justin_monetization_template.R) This script analyzes attempts by QAnon channels to monetize their content: it includes frequency breakdowns by time, language and channels as well as a scraper to extract additional information on the IBAN's contained in the data.

# File naming conventions: 
date_name_topic, e.g., 220523_justin_network_uk_climate.
